---
layout: post
title: docker
comments: true
categories: technology
---

encterOS 7 卸载docker

	$ sudo yum remove docker \
	           docker-common \
	           docker-selinux \
	           docker-engine

centOS 7 安装docker

# 1.添加依赖包

	$ sudo yum install -y yum-utils \
	           device-mapper-persistent-data \
	           lvm2

# 2.添加软件源

	$ sudo yum-config-manager \
	    --add-repo \
	    https://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn/docker-ce/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo

# 3.安装 Docker CE

## 3.1.更新 yum 软件源缓存，并安装 docker-ce。

	$ sudo yum makecache fast
	$ sudo yum install docker-ce

## 3.2.启动 Docker CE
	$ sudo systemctl enable docker
	$ sudo systemctl start docker

# 4.建立 docker 用户组

# 5.测试 Docker 是否安装正确

	$ docker run hello-world

	Unable to find image 'hello-world:latest' locally
	latest: Pulling from library/hello-world
	ca4f61b1923c: Pull complete
	Digest: sha256:083de497cff944f969d8499ab94f07134c50bcf5e6b9559b27182d3fa80ce3f7
	Status: Downloaded newer image for hello-world:latest

	Hello from Docker!
	This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.

	To generate this message, Docker took the following steps:
	 1. The Docker client contacted the Docker daemon.
	 2. The Docker daemon pulled the "hello-world" image from the Docker Hub.
	    (amd64)
	 3. The Docker daemon created a new container from that image which runs the
	    executable that produces the output you are currently reading.
	 4. The Docker daemon streamed that output to the Docker client, which sent it
	    to your terminal.

	To try something more ambitious, you can run an Ubuntu container with:
	 $ docker run -it ubuntu bash

	Share images, automate workflows, and more with a free Docker ID:
	 https://cloud.docker.com/

	For more examples and ideas, visit:
	 https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/

# 7.镜像加速

由于国内网络速度问题,最好在安装号docker后配置国内镜像加速.

# 8.获取镜像

	docker pull [选项] [Docker Registry 地址[:端口号]/]仓库名[:标签]

 ## 8.1.运行

 	$ docker run -it --rm \
    ubuntu:16.04 \
    bash


